# AWS Reserved Instances Recommendations

## What It Does

This Policy Template reports any Reserved Instance Purchase Recommendations generated by AWS. The user can adjust which recommendations are reported via policy parameters.

> *NOTE: This Policy Template must be applied to the **AWS Organization Master Payer** account.*

## How It Works

Recommendations are obtained via requests to the [AWS Reservation Purchase Recommendation API](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/aws-cost-management/latest/APIReference/API_GetReservationPurchaseRecommendation.html).

### Policy Savings Details

The policy template includes the estimated savings. The estimated savings is recognized if the recommended reserved instance is purchased. The savings values are provided directly by the [AWS Reservation Purchase Recommendation API](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/aws-cost-management/latest/APIReference/API_GetReservationPurchaseRecommendation.html).

If the Flexera organization is configured to use a currency other than the one the [AWS Reservation Purchase Recommendation API](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/aws-cost-management/latest/APIReference/API_GetReservationPurchaseRecommendation.html) returns, the savings values will be converted using the exchange rate at the time that the policy executes.

## Input Parameters

This policy template has the following input parameters:

- *Email Addresses* - Email addresses of the recipients you wish to notify when new incidents are created.
- *Account Number* - The Account number for use with the AWS STS Cross Account Role. Leave blank when using AWS IAM Access key and secret. It only needs to be passed when the desired AWS account is different than the one associated with the Flexera One credential. [More information is available in our documentation.](https://docs.flexera.com/flexera/EN/Automation/ProviderCredentials.htm#automationadmin_1982464505_1123608)
- *Minimum Savings Threshold* - Minimum potential savings required to generate a recommendation.
- *Look Back Period* - Number of days of prior usage to analyze
- *Service* - AWS Services to scan for recommendations. Items can be removed by clicking X to the right of the name.
- *EC2 Reservation Type* - The type of reservation recommendations to produce for EC2. Standard reservations are less flexible than convertible ones but provide a higher discount. Has no effect on recommendations for services other than `Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2)`
- *Account Scope* - The account scope that you want your recommendations for. Select `Payer` to produce results aggregated across the entire AWS Organization (Master Payer and Linked accounts), or `Linked` to produce results for each linked account individually.
- *Reservation Term* - Length of reservation term to provide recommendations for.
- *Payment Option* - Reservation purchase option to provide recommendations for. Select `Everything` to produce recommendations for all three.
- *Attach CSV To Incident Email* - Whether or not to attach the results as a CSV file to the incident email.
- *Incident Table Rows for Email Body (#)* - The number of results to include in the incident table in the incident email. Set to '0' to not show an incident table at all, and '100000' to include all results. Does not impact attached CSV files or the incident as presented in Flexera One.

## Policy Actions

The following policy actions are taken on any resources found to be out of compliance.

- Send an email report

## Prerequisites

This Policy Template uses [Credentials](https://docs.flexera.com/flexera/EN/Automation/ManagingCredentialsExternal.htm) for authenticating to datasources -- in order to apply this policy template you must have a Credential registered in the system that is compatible with this policy template. If there are no Credentials listed when you apply the policy template, please contact your Flexera Org Admin and ask them to register a Credential that is compatible with this policy template. The information below should be consulted when creating the credential(s).

- [**AWS Credential**](https://docs.flexera.com/flexera/EN/Automation/ProviderCredentials.htm#automationadmin_1982464505_1121575) (*provider=aws*) which has the following permissions:
  - `ce:GetReservationPurchaseRecommendation`

  Example IAM Permission Policy:

  ```json
  {
      "Version": "2012-10-17",
      "Statement": [
          {
              "Effect": "Allow",
              "Action": [
                  "ce:GetReservationPurchaseRecommendation"
              ],
              "Resource": "*"
          }
      ]
  }
  ```

- [**Flexera Credential**](https://docs.flexera.com/flexera/EN/Automation/ProviderCredentials.htm) (*provider=flexera*) which has the following roles:
  - `billing_center_viewer`

The [Provider-Specific Credentials](https://docs.flexera.com/flexera/EN/Automation/ProviderCredentials.htm) page in the docs has detailed instructions for setting up Credentials for the most common providers.

## Supported Clouds

- AWS

## Cost

This policy template makes use of AWS Cost Explorer APIs. Please review [AWS's documentation](https://aws.amazon.com/aws-cost-management/aws-cost-explorer/pricing/) on the cost of using these APIs.
