# Azure Reserved Instances Recommendations

## What It Does

This policy template reports any Reserved Instance Purchase Recommendations generated by Azure. The user can adjust which recommendations are reported via policy parameters.

## How It Works

Recommendations are obtained via requests to the [Azure Consumption API](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/rest/api/consumption/reservation-recommendations/list?tabs=HTTP).

### Policy Savings Details

The policy includes the estimated savings. The estimated savings is recognized if the recommended reserved instance is purchased. The savings values are provided directly by the [Azure Consumption API](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/rest/api/consumption/reservation-recommendations/list?tabs=HTTP).

If the Flexera organization is configured to use a currency other than the one the [Azure Billing API](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/rest/api/billing/2019-10-01-preview/billing-accounts/list?tabs=HTTP) returns, the savings values will be converted using the exchange rate at the time that the policy executes. If the policy is unable to obtain the currency code from the [Azure Billing API](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/rest/api/billing/2019-10-01-preview/billing-accounts/list?tabs=HTTP) due to the Azure credential lacking the `Microsoft.Billing/billingAccounts/read` permission, values will not be converted and will be presumed to already be in the currency the Flexera organization is configured to use.

## Input Parameters

- *Email Addresses* - A list of email addresses to notify
- *Azure Endpoint* - Azure Endpoint to access resources
- *Minimum Savings Threshold* - Minimum potential savings required to generate a recommendation.
- *Allow/Deny Subscriptions* - Allow or Deny entered Subscriptions to filter results.
- *Allow/Deny Subscriptions List* - A list of allowed or denied Subscription IDs/names. Leave blank to check all Subscriptions.
- *Allow/Deny Regions* - Allow or Deny entered regions to filter results.
- *Allow/Deny Regions List* - A list of allowed or denied regions. Leave blank to check all Regions.
- *Look Back Period* - Number of days of prior usage to analyze.
- *Resource Types* - Types of resources to provide recommendations for. Items can be removed by clicking X to the right of the name.
  - Note: For large cloud estates, it is recommended that this policy be applied once for each resource type recommendations are desired for rather than attempting to gather all recommendations with a single applied policy.
- *Reservation Term* - Length of reservation term to provide recommendations for. Can be set to either `1 Year` or `3 Year`
- *Reservation Scope* - The scope to provide recommendations for. Can be set to either `Single` or `Shared`

## Policy Actions

- Send an email report

## Prerequisites

This Policy Template uses [Credentials](https://docs.flexera.com/flexera/EN/Automation/ManagingCredentialsExternal.htm) for authenticating to datasources -- in order to apply this policy you must have a Credential registered in the system that is compatible with this policy. If there are no Credentials listed when you apply the policy, please contact your Flexera Org Admin and ask them to register a Credential that is compatible with this policy. The information below should be consulted when creating the credential(s).

- [**Azure Resource Manager Credential**](https://docs.flexera.com/flexera/EN/Automation/ProviderCredentials.htm#automationadmin_109256743_1124668) (*provider=azure_rm*) which has the following permissions:
  - `Microsoft.Billing/billingAccounts/read`*
  - `Microsoft.Consumption/reservationRecommendations/read`

  \* Only needed for currency conversion. Policy will still function without this permission but will provide a warning in the incident description about this.

- [**Flexera Credential**](https://docs.flexera.com/flexera/EN/Automation/ProviderCredentials.htm) (*provider=flexera*) which has the following roles:
  - `billing_center_viewer`

The [Provider-Specific Credentials](https://docs.flexera.com/flexera/EN/Automation/ProviderCredentials.htm) page in the docs has detailed instructions for setting up Credentials for the most common providers.

## Supported Clouds

- Azure

## Cost

This policy template does not incur any cloud costs.
